Slide 1, I will be presenting today
is about “Enabling Distributed DNNs for the Mobile Web
Over Cloud, Edge and End Devices.”
Slide 2.
slide-2
And the contents include
the Overview of executing DNNs on the Web,
two ways for enabling distributed DNNs for the Web
with edge computing, and some thinking and discussion.
Slide 3.
slide-3
So, as we all know, Deep neural networks,
as a representative way of achieving
Artificial Intelligence in numerous applications,
also show great promise in providing more intelligence
to the web applications.
As shown in the figure,
there are two typical DNNs execution schemes on the Web.
The first approach is executing the whole DNNs
on the Web via JavaScript and WebAssembly
such as Tensorflow.js, Keras.js, WebDNN etc.
However, this approach requires a high transmission delay
for loading heavy DNN models.
For example, Tensorflow.js’s ResNet50 deep learning model,
whose size can be up to 97.8 MB.
Besides, limited computing resource of the Web
also performs a slow DNN inference
even we can accelerate computation by WebAssembly or WebGPU.
And more commonly, the cloud-only approach offloads
the whole task by executing the whole DNNs on the remote cloud.
Thus, large amounts of data such as images, audios and videos,
are sent to the remote cloud,
and it increases the computing pressure,
especially for high concurrent requests.
In addition, transmitting the complete task to the remote cloud
also raises new privacy concerns for users,
such as home security cameras.
Slide 4.
slide-4
As mobile edge computing is becoming
an important computing infrastructure in 5G era,
it is promising to consider the use of the edge cloud
that has the benefit of low communication costs
compared to offloading computations to the remote cloud,
and relieves the burdens of the core network.
To accelerate distributed DNNs for the web,
it is natural to consider the use of partition-offloading approach
to leverage computing resources of the end devices and the edge server.
Note that we can deploy the web applications on the edge server,
and remote cloud is responsible for training DNN models with GPUs.
This approach partitions the DNNs computation by layers
and dynamically distributes the computations
between the Web and the edge server.
Since the mobile web loads a small portion of DNN models
and executes a part of DNN computations,
we can protect data privacy by transmitting
the intermediate results to the edge server
for executing the rest of DNN inference
instead of transmitting the complete task.
However, the challenge is how to provide dynamic DNN partition
to cope with various tasks, unstable network conditions,
and various devices with different computing capability.
So, how can the web or mobile web perceive and measure
the computing capability of the device,
and monitor the network condition etc.,
when employing partition-offloading approach into the Web.
Slide 5.
slide-5
With partition-offloading approach in edge computing infrastructure,
although a small portion of DNN computations can be offloaded to the web,
the edge server still has to undertake
the majority of DNN computations.
We introduce adding an efficient branch to the traditional DNNs
for executing inference on the web independently.
Concretely, we add a binary neural network branch
at the first convolutional layer
of the traditional neural network,
and it has the same structure to the rest
of the traditional neural network.
Thus, it is easy to design a lightweight DNN for the Web
without rich expert experience and knowledge,
which also can provide accurate compensation
for the lightweight branch via collaborative mechanism.
For a given sample,
if the binary branch is confident
to predict the result and satisfy users,
the sample can exit from the binary branch directly.
Otherwise, it has to transfer the output
of the first convolutional layer
to the edge server for a precise result.
And measuring the confidence of inference results
can use the normalized entropy,
which is always employed in collaborative DNNs.
Then, we compared normalized entropy against a threshold
to determine whether or not exit from the tiny branch.
We pick the appropriate value by viewing exit threshold
as a hypeparameter during the training phase.
In summary, adding lightweight branch
can reduce the model size
and accelerate inference on the web,
which provides a collaborative mechanism
with the edge server for accuracy compensation.
Slide 6.
slide-6
Furthermore, considering that in actual scenarios,
user requirements for delay, network conditions,
and the computing capabilities of devices
may change dynamically,
so a constant lightweight branch or
traditional DNN compression network
cannot meet the requirements.
This requires providing a context-aware pruning algorithm
that incorporates the latency, the network condition
and the computing capability of the device.
In this figure, we propose a DeepAdapter framework
across the mobile web, the edge server and the cloud server,
which contains offline and online phase.
The offline phase consists of network pruning
and model cache updating.
DeepAdapter employs a context-aware runtime adapter
providing a pruned model that will be optimal
for the mobile user by monitoring the network condition
and incorporating the CPU frequency of the mobile device.
When this pruned model is unsatisfactory for the mobile user,
DeepAdapter then receives output
from the first convolutional layer
from the mobile web browser
and executes the rest of the inference of the unpruned model
on the edge server.
For each new request without a matched pruned model,
we first leverage the edge server
to process the mobile user’s request,
and then we send the pruning requirement
to a message request queue of
network pruning module on the cloud server.
And network pruning module obtains the requirements
from the request queue,
then prunes the network and updates the pruned model
to the model cache of the edge for the next similar request.
Slide 7.
slide-7
Although we have discussed some ideas
for accelerating the execution of DNNs on the web
to implement AI services,
they still face problems in actual development.
The first thing is what role should the edge server play
in providing processing support
for intelligent web applications
requiring heavy computation?
I mean is there a better computing collaboration
or deployment model for accelerating DNN?
The second is How to web developers use the edge server
more easily for accelerating DNNs
and collaborating with Web apps?
The third thing is How can the edge server deploy
and offload DNN computations more easily?
1). How Web apps can monitor changes in network conditions,
and response to the edge server?
2). How the edge server can perceive
the computing capability of the device,
and distribute appropriate computations to Web apps
for execution in real time?
Slide 7.
slide-8
OK. this is what I want to share and discuss
about enabling distributed DNNs
over the mobile web over cloud, edge and end device.
Thanks for your listening!